# Crowdfunding ETL Project
Welcome to the Crowdfunding ETL project! In this project, we are working with Excel data related to crowdfunding campaigns and contacts. Our task is to extract and transform the data, create various DataFrames, and ultimately create a Crowdfunding database.

## Requirement
1) Python v3.10.9
2) Pandas 
3) Numpy


## Repository Setup
Add the following files to your repository:
The renamed Jupyter notebook file (ETL_Mini_Project_Starter_Code.ipynb)
The "Resources" folder containing the following files:
* crowdfunding.xlsx
* contacts.xlsx
* contact.csv
* category.csv
* sub-category.csv 
* campaign.csv

## Category and Subcategory DataFrames
In this section, we extracted and transformed data from the "crowdfunding.xlsx" file to create two DataFrames: "category" and "subcategory".

## Category DataFrame
1) Extract and transform the data from the "crowdfunding.xlsx" file to create a category DataFrame with the following columns:
* "category_id": Entries going sequentially from "cat1" to "catn", where n is the number of unique categories.
* "category": Contains only the category titles.
2) Export the category DataFrame as "category.csv" and save it to your GitHub repository.

## Subcategory DataFrame
1) Extract and transform the data from the "crowdfunding.xlsx" file to create a subcategory DataFrame with the following columns:
* "subcategory_id": Entries going sequentially from "subcat1" to "subcatn", where n is the number of unique subcategories.
* "subcategory": Contains only the subcategory titles.
2) Export the subcategory DataFrame as "subcategory.csv" and save it to your GitHub repository.

## Campaign DataFrame
In this section, we extracted and transformed the data from the "crowdfunding.xlsx" file to create a campaign DataFrame.

Extract and transform the data from the "crowdfunding.xlsx" file to create a campaign DataFrame with the following columns:
* "cf_id"
* "contact_id"
* "company_name"
* "description" (renamed from "blurb")
* "goal" (converted to float data type)
* "pledged" (converted to float data type)
* "outcome"
* "backers_count"
* "country"
* "currency"
* "launch_date" (renamed from "launched_at") with UTC times converted to datetime format
* "end_date" (renamed from "deadline") with UTC times converted to datetime format
* "category_id" with unique identification numbers matching those in the "category_id" column of the category DataFrame
* "subcategory_id" with unique identification numbers matching those in the "subcategory_id" column of the subcategory DataFrame
* Export the campaign DataFrame as "campaign.csv" and save it to your GitHub repository.

## Contacts DataFrame
In this section, we have used option 1 for extracting and transforming the data from the "contacts.xlsx" file. Choose one of the following options:

Option 2: Use regular expressions
1)Import the contacts.xlsx file into a DataFrame.
2) Extract the "contact_id", "name", and "email" columns by using regular expressions.
3) Create a new DataFrame with the extracted data.
4) Convert the "contact_id" column to the integer type.
5) Split each "name" column value into a first and a last name, and place each in a new column.
6) Clean and then export the DataFrame as contacts.csv and save it to your GitHub repository


## Crowdfunding Database
1) In this section, you will create a Crowdfunding database using the extracted and transformed data.
2) Inspect the four CSV files and sketch an Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) of the tables. You can use tools like QuickDBD to create the ERD.
3) Use the information from the ERD to create a table schema for each CSV file.
4) Save the database schema as a Postgres file named "crowdfunding_db_schema.sql" and save it to your GitHub repository.
5) Create a new Postgres database named "crowdfunding_db".
6) Using the database schema, create the tables in the correct order to handle the foreign keys.
7) Verify the table creation by running a SELECT statement for each table.
8) Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table.
9) Verify that each table has the correct data by running a SELECT statement for each.

## Reference
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
